# Cobalt.io Testing Coverage

## Data Storage and Privacy

* Testing Whether Sensitive Data Is Sent To Third Parties
    > :heavy_check_mark:  No sensitive data is shared with third parties unless it is a necessary part of the architecture.
* Testing For Sensitive Data in Logs
    > :heavy_check_mark: No sensitive data is written to application logs.
* Testing for Sensitive Data Disclosure Through the User Interface
    > :heavy_check_mark: No sensitive data, such as passwords or pins, is exposed through the user interface.
* Testing Whether Sensitive Data Is Exposed via IPC Mechanisms
    > :heavy_check_mark: No sensitive data is exposed via IPC mechanisms.
* Testing for Sensitive Information in Auto-Generated Screenshots
    > :heavy_check_mark: The app removes sensitive data from views when backgrounded.
* Testing the Device-Access-Security Policy
    > :heavy_check_mark: The app enforces a minimum device-access-security policy, such as requiring the user to set a device passcode.
* Testing user education
    > :heavy_check_mark: The app educates the user about the types of personally identifiable information processed, as well as security best practices the user should follow in using the app. 
* Testing for Sensitive Data in Memory
    > :heavy_check_mark: The app does not hold sensitive data in memory longer than necessary, and memory is cleared explicitly after use.
* Testing For Sensitive Data in Local Data Storage
    > :heavy_check_mark: No sensitive data should be stored outside of the app container or system credential storage facilities.

    > :heavy_check_mark: System credential storage facilities are used appropriately to store sensitive data, such as PII, user credentials or cryptographic keys.
* Testing for Sensitive Data in Backups
    > :heavy_check_mark: No sensitive data is included in backups generated by the mobile operating system.

## Resiliency Against Reverse Engineering

* Testing Simple Emulator Detection
    > :heavy_check_mark: Impede Dynamic Analysis and Tampering - The app detects, and responds to, being run in an emulator.
* Impede comprehensive and analysis
    > :heavy_check_mark: Impede Dynamic Analysis and Tampering - The app implements multiple mechanisms in each defense category (8.1 to 8.6). Note that resiliency scales with the amount, diversity of the originality of the mechanisms used.

    > :heavy_check_mark: Impede Dynamic Analysis and Tampering - The detection mechanisms trigger responses of different types, including delayed and stealthy responses. 

    > :heavy_check_mark: Impede Comprehension - If the goal of obfuscation is to protect sensitive computations, an obfuscation scheme is used that is both appropriate for the particular task and robust against manual and automated de-obfuscation methods, considering currently published research. The effectiveness of the obfuscation scheme must be verified through manual testing. Note that hardware-based isolation features are preferred over obfuscation whenever possible. 
* Testing Run-Time Integrity Checks
    > :heavy_check_mark: Impede Dynamic Analysis and Tampering - The app detects, and responds to, tampering the code and data in its own memory space. 
* Testing Simple Obfuscation
    > :heavy_check_mark: Impede Dynamic Analysis and Tampering - Obfuscation is applied to programmatic defenses, which in turn impede de-obfuscation via dynamic analysis. 
* Testing Detection of Reverse Engineering Tools
    > :heavy_check_mark: Impede Dynamic Analysis and Tampering - The app detects, and responds to, the presence of widely used reverse engineering tools and frameworks on the device. 
* Testing Device Binding
    > :heavy_check_mark: Device Binding - The app implements a 'device binding' functionality using a device fingerprint derived from multiple properties unique to the device. 
* Testing Jailbreak Detection, Testing Root Detection
    > :heavy_check_mark: Impede Dynamic Analysis and Tampering - The app detects, and responds to, the presence of a rooted or jailbroken device either by alerting the user or terminating the app. 
* Testing File Integrity Checks
    > :heavy_check_mark: Impede Dynamic Analysis and Tampering - The app detects, and responds to, tampering with executable files and critical data within its own sandbox. 
* Testing Obfuscation
    > :heavy_check_mark: Impede Comprehension - All executable files and libraries belonging to the app are either encrypted on the file level and/or important code and data segments inside the executables are encrypted or packed. Trivial static analysis does not reveal important code or data. 
* Testing Debugging Defenses
    > :heavy_check_mark: Impede Dynamic Analysis and Tampering - The app prevents debugging and/or detects, and responds to, a debugger being attached. All available debugging protocols must be covered. 

## Network Communication

* Testing Endpoint Identify Verification
    > :heavy_check_mark: The app verifies the X.509 certificate of the remote endpoint when the secure channel is established. Only certificates signed by a trusted CA are accepted. 
* Verifying that Critical Operations Use Secure Communication Channels
    > :heavy_check_mark: The app doesn't rely on a single insecure communication channel (email or SMS) for critical operations, such as enrollments and account recovery. 
* Verifying the TLS Settings
    > :heavy_check_mark: The TLS settings are in line with current best practices, or as close as possible if the mobile operating system does not support the recommended standards. 
* Testing Custom Certificate Stores and SSL Pinning
    > :heavy_check_mark: The app either uses its own certificate store, or pins the endpoint certificate or public key, and subsequently does not establish connections with endpoints that offer a different certificate or key, even if signed by a trusted CA. 
* Testing for Unencrypted Sensitive Data on the Network
    > :heavy_check_mark: Data is encrypted on the network using TLS. The secure channel is used consistently throughout the app.
* Verifying the Security Provider
    > :heavy_check_mark: The app only depends on up-to-date connectivity and security libraries.

## Code Quality and Build Settings

* Verifying usage of Free Security Features
    > :heavy_check_mark: Free security features offered by the toolchain, such as byte-code minification, stack protection, PIE support and automatic reference counting, are activated. 
* Testing If the App is Debuggable
    > :heavy_check_mark: The app has been built in release mode, with settings appropriate for a release build (e.g. non-debuggable).
* Testing for Weaknesses in Third Party Libraries
    > :heavy_check_mark: All third party components used by the mobile app, such as libraries and frameworks, are identified, and checked for known vulnerabilities. 
* Testing for Debugging Code and Verbose Error Logging
    > :heavy_check_mark: Debugging code has been removed, and the app does not log verbose errors or debugging messages.
* Testing Exception Handling
    > :heavy_check_mark: The app catches and handles possible exceptions.
* Testing for Memory Management Bugs
    > :heavy_check_mark: In unmanaged code, memory is allocated, freed and used securely.
* Testing Error Handling in Security Controls
    > :heavy_check_mark: Error handling logic in security controls denies access by default.
* Testing for Debugging Symbols
    > :heavy_check_mark: Debugging symbols have been removed from native binaries.
* Verifying That the App is Properly Signed
    > :heavy_check_mark: The app is signed and provisioned with a valid certificate, of which the private key is properly protected.

## Cryptography

* Testing for Insecure and/or Deprecated Cryptographic Algorithms
    > :heavy_check_mark: The app does not use cryptographic protocols or algorithms that are widely considered depreciated for security purposes.
* Verifying the Configuration of Cryptographic Standard Algorithms
    > :heavy_check_mark: The app uses cryptographic primitives that are appropriate for the particular use-case, configured with parameters that adhere to industry best practices. 
* Verifying Key Management
    > :heavy_check_mark: The app doesn't re-use the same cryptographic key for multiple purposes.

    > :heavy_check_mark: The app does not rely on symmetric cryptography with hardcoded keys as a sole method of encryption
* Testing for Custom Implementations of Cryptography
    > :heavy_check_mark: The app uses proven implementations of cryptographic primitives.
* Testing Random Number Generation
    > :heavy_check_mark: All random values are generated using a sufficiently secure random number generator.

## Platform Interaction

* Testing Input Validation and Sanitization
    > :heavy_check_mark: All inputs from external sources and the user are validated and if necessary sanitized. This includes data received via the UI, IPC mechanisms such as intents, custom URLs, and network sources. 
* Testing Object (De-)Serialization
    > :heavy_check_mark: Object deserialization, if any, is implemented using safe serialization APIs.
* Testing For Sensitive Functionality Exposure Through IPC
    > :heavy_check_mark: The app does not export sensitive functionality through IPC facilities, unless these mechanisms are properly protected.
* Testing Custom URL Schemes
    > :heavy_check_mark: The app does not export sensitive functionality via custom URL schemes, unless these mechanisms are properly protected.
* Testing App Permissions
    > :heavy_check_mark: The app only requests the minimum set of permissions necessary.

## Authentication and Session Management

* Verifying that Users Are Properly Authenticated
    > :heavy_check_mark: If the app provides users access to a remote service, some form of authentication, such as username/password authentication, is performed at the remote endpoint. 
* Testing Stateless Authentication
    > :heavy_check_mark: If stateless token-based authentication is used, the server provides a token that has been signed using a secure algorithm.
* Testing the Session Timeout
    > :heavy_check_mark: Sessions are invalidated at the remote endpoint after a predefined period of inactivity and access tokens expire.

## Architecture, design and threat modelling

* Components
    > :heavy_check_mark: All app components are identified and known to be needed.
* Architecture
    > :heavy_check_mark: Security controls are never enforced only on the client side, but on the respective remote endpoints.

    > :heavy_check_mark: A high-level architecture for the mobile app and all connected remote services has been defined and security has been addressed in that architecture. 

    > :heavy_check_mark: Data considered sensitive in the context of the mobile app is clearly identified.
